# Certificate Management

## How do I change OpenUnison's certificates?

OpenUnison's certificate when deployed in Kubernetes is hosted by the Ingress controller, not by the OpenUnison container its self.  When used for the login portal, we want to supply the CA certificate for two reasons:

1. So it can be embedded in the `kubectl` command correctly
2. So that the dashboard SSO works properly when validating the login process

Before moving forward you'll need:

1. A certificate with subject alternative names for your portal (`network.openunison_host`) and your dashboard (`network.dashboard_host`).  If using impersonation, the impersonation host is needed too (`network.api_server_host`)
2. The certificate authority (CA) certificate that signed your certificate from #1
3. Any intermediate certs needed to complete the chain

Once you have your certificates and keys:

1. Delete the `ou-tls-certificate` secret in the `openunison` namespace - `kubectl delete secret ou-tls-certificate -n openunison`
2. Recreate the `ou-tls-certificate` secret - `kubectl create secret tls ou-tls-certificate --cert=/path/to/chain.pem --key=/path/to/key.pem -n openunison` - **NOTE** `chain.pem` should be your entire certificate chain, including the CA and all intermediate certs.  You may also allow a tool like cert-manager to generate your certificate either directly or by specifying the correct annotations on your Ingress controller.
3. Update your `values.yaml` file to specify `network.createIngressCertificate=false`.
4. If your certificate isn't signed by a well known CA, such as Let's Encrypt, base64 encode the PEM certificate and add it to 
the `trusted_certs` section of your values.yaml with the name `unison-ca`:


```
trusted_certs:
  - name: unison-ca
    pem_b64: LS0tLS1CRUdJTiBDRVJUSU...
```

Finally, update both your `orchestra` and `orchestra-login-portal` helm deployments:

```
helm upgrade orchestra tremolo/orchestra --namespace openunison -f /path/to/values.yaml
helm install orchestra-login-portal tremolo/orchestra-login-portal --namespace openunison -f /path/to/values.yaml
```

## How do I trust my API Server's Certificate? 

When integrating your cluster via OIDC, your API Server often has certificate that needs to be trusted.  If no certificate is specified, then the certificate is loaded from the direct connection to the API server.  Since most production deployments use a load balancer, you may need to specify a different certificate.  To specify a specific certificate for your API Server, add the correct certificate to your values.yaml's `trusted_certs` section with the name `k8s-master`.  For instance:

```yaml
trusted_certs:
- name: k8s-master
  pem_b64: ...
```

If your API server is protected with a commercial certificate, or the certificate is installed on all clients, you can change your values.yaml to tell OpenUnison to look at a non-existent certificate by adding `K8S_API_SERVER_CERT` to `openunison.non_secret_data` in your values.yaml:

```yaml
openunison:
  replicas: 1
  non_secret_data:
    K8S_DB_SSO: oidc
    K8S_API_SERVER_CERT: api-server-none
```

This will tell OpenUnison to use a certificate that doesn't exist (`api-server-none`) when generating a token, so your kubectl configuration won't contain any API Server certificate relying on your workstation's own trusted certificate store.

## How do I include additional keys and certificates?

If your OpenUnison needs to be able to include additional key pairs to support your environment deployment there are two options:

1. **Have OpenUnison's operator generate them for you -** OpenUnison's operator is a mini "cert-manager", it's not nearly as extensive but for simple and internal keypair generation it works well.
2. **Import a `Secret` from a generated source -** You can use a system like cert-manager to generate your `Secrets` and them let OpenUnison know where they are to import them.  

In either case, the operator will make sure OpenUnison stays up to date.  To add a new key pair, add the following YAML with customizations for your needs, to the `openunison` section of your values.yaml:

```yaml
openunison:
  keys:
  - name: sts-aws
    # can be keypair or certificate
    import_into_ks: keypair
    # the name of the Secret the keypair is stored in
    tls_secret_name: aws-sts-keypair
    # if true, but wasn't generated by OpenUnison, it will get replaced.  If using
    # cert-manager or another generator for this key pair, set to false
    replace_if_exists: true
    create_data:
      # important for self-signed
      ca_cert: true
      key_size: 2048
      # sets the CN
      server_name: aws-sts-keypair
```
